https://docs.google.com/document/d/1AOk_xBVYdO1fB4qKilQEy7EBKzj0eN-ItxZlicMxWxM/edit?usp=sharing


EASTLAKE HIGH SCHOOL
FIRST ROBOTICS COMPETITION TEAM 1294
PACK OF PARTS



2023-2024 STUDENT HANDBOOK

CONTENTS
The Team……………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 3
About FIRST………………………………………………………………………………………………………. 4
Team Organization……………………………………………………………………………………… 7
Season Layout………………………………………………………………………………………………… 10
Team Communication..…………………………………………………………………………… 12
Meeting Attendance ……………………………………………………………………………….. 13
Rules and Expectations…………………………………………………………………………. 14
Event Descriptions...…………………………………………………………………………………… 16 
Member Requirements……………………………………………………………………….... 17
Family Involvement…………………………………………………………………………………... 19
Finances…………………………………………………………………………………………………………….... 21 
Parent/Guardian Summary Sheet……………………………………………… 22
Contact……………………………………………………………………………………………………………….…. 24
2022-2023 Student Contract………………………………………………………….… 25
THE TEAM
INTRODUCTION
FRC Team 1294 Pack of Parts, formerly known as Top Gun, began in 2004. Over the past 18 years, Pack of Parts (POP) has grown to be a large team of 70+ members annually, with a diverse group of dedicated students from the Sammamish area. Based out of Eastlake High School, POP’s members are high school (9-12) students from Eastlake High School, Eastside Catholic High School, Tesla STEM High School, Skyline High School, International Community School, and homeschool. 


← 2022 Team Photo (with the Judge’s Award)






2022 1294 Robot (Quantum) 
in Action → 




MISSION STATEMENT
Our mission is to inspire young people to be science and technology leaders, by engaging them in exciting mentor-based programs that build science, engineering and technology skills, that inspire innovation, and that foster well-rounded life capabilities including self-confidence, communication, and leadership.

ABOUT FIRST
WHAT IS FIRST?
FIRST (For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology) is an international youth organization that operates the FIRST Robotics Competition, FIRST Tech Challenge, FIRST LEGO League, FIRST Lego League Jr., and FIRST LEGO League Jr. Discovery Edition competitions. FIRST was founded by inventor Dean Kamen and former MIT professor Woodie Flowers in 1989 to inspire young people’s interest and participation in science and technology. FIRST is “More Than Robots”. FIRST participation is proven to encourage students to pursue education and careers in STEM-related fields, inspire them to become leaders and innovators, and enhance their work and life skills. ​

WHAT IS FRC?
Combining the excitement of sport with the rigors of science and technology, we call the FIRST Robotics Competition the ultimate Sport for the Mind. Under strict rules, limited resources, and an intense six-week time limit, teams of students are challenged to raise funds, design a team “brand,” hone teamwork skills, and build & program industrial-size robots to play a difficult field game against like-minded competitors. It’s as close to real-world engineering as a student can get. Volunteer professional mentors lend their time and talents to guide each team. Each season ends with an exciting FIRST Championship in Houston, TX and Detroit, MI. ​

VALUES OF FIRST
Gracious Professionalism
Dr. Woodie Flowers (1943 - 2019), former MIT Professor and FIRST National Advisor, coined the term “Gracious Professionalism”. Gracious Professionalism is part of the ethos of FIRST. It is a way of doing things that encourages high-quality work, emphasizes the value of others, and respects individuals and the community. With Gracious Professionalism, fierce competition and mutual gain are not separate notions. Gracious professionals learn and compete passionately, but treat one another with respect and kindness in the process. Knowledge, competition, and empathy are comfortably blended. In the long run, Gracious Professionalism is part of pursuing a meaningful life. One can add to society and enjoy the satisfaction of knowing one has acted with integrity and sensitivity.
Coopertition 
Coopertition produces innovation and puts the cooperation in competition. In FIRST, Coopertition is displaying kindness and respect in the face of fierce competition. Coopertition is founded on the concept and a philosophy that teams can and should help and cooperate with each other even as they compete. Coopertition involves learning from teammates. It is teaching teammates. It is learning from mentors. Coopertition means striving for success, but assisting and enabling others in the process.

TEAM ORGANIZATION
MENTORS
Pack of Parts Robotics would not be complete without the mentorship and advisory of our mentors, advisors, and all our parent volunteers. For a full list of our mentors, please visit www.team1294.org. Mentors are on Discord and Teams as possible.

STUDENT LEADERSHIP
Here at Pack of Parts, we believe in the power of student leadership and involvement. Hence, POP is a student-run club with a variety of opportunities for youth leadership. Be sure to reach out for help.

The 2022-23 Student Board consists of an Executive Board and a Project Management Board. Following the end of each season, a new President, and Vice President are elected via a team-wide voting process. The remaining positions are selected by the graduating senior board members via an application-based interview..

Executive Board
Project Management Board
President
Project Manager
Vice President
Director of Materials
Director of Public Relations
Director Of Mechanics
Director of Finance
Director Of Programming
Secretary
Director Of Electronics




SUBTEAMS
Team members take on an active role on one or more of POP’s subteams. Each subteam is led by one or two subteam leads, selected by the Executive Board and Project Manager via an interview process.

CAD/Design/Fabrication - Focused on computer designing 
and manufacturing of the robot using CAD software

Build - Focused on hardware: design, prototyping, machining, and 
assembly (works closely with CAD)

Programming - Responsible for movement of the robot via 
remote control and autonomous instruction

Electrical - Responsible for all things wiring and electronics on 
the robot

PR/Business - Focused on the team’s business, outreach, and 
media presence 

COMPETITION ROLES
In addition to club leadership positions during build season, team members may have a competition role. Standard competition roles are as follows:

Drive Team consisting of a Driver, Operator, Drive Coach, Human Player, and Technician. The Drive Team is selected via a mentor-led interview and tryout during the build season. The Drive Team is responsible for representing the team during competitions by driving the robot during matches.

Pit Crew consisting of a Safety Captain and Pit Manager(s). Safety Captain, part of the Project Management Board, is selected through an application-based interview during elections. Pit Manager(s), responsible for the organization and accessibility of the team’s competition pit, are appointed during build season and work directly with the director of materials.

Scouting consists of a Scouting/Strategy Lead, selected via application-based interview during elections, part of the Project Management Board; and Scouters, team members tasked with observing matches and recording data and observations about the performance of teams. Team members without a main competition role will become Scouters or assist the Scouting/Strategy Lead during competition.

Presenters are responsible for sharing the legacy and impact of our team with Chairman’s Award* judges. Chairman’s Award is considered the highest honor given to a FIRST Robotics Competition team that exemplifies the FIRST values through their work in the community. Three presenters will share a 7-minute presentation during competition with a panel of judges. Presenters will be determined during the build season.

PR/Media members will be responsible for taking photos and videos of the team to use for the purpose of media posts, recap videos, and general publications.

SEASON LAYOUT
PRESEASON
September -	Interest meetings and welcome new members
			Safety training and subteam introductions
October -		Drive Team Tryouts
Girls Gen (Oct 8, 9)
			Block Party (Oct 29, 30)
Safety Training begins			
Begin offseason project(s) within subteams
New member training
November -	Subteam offseason project(s)
			New member training
Parent Meeting

December - 	Offseason project(s) finalized
			Prepare for upcoming season

BUILD SEASON 
December-	Pre-kickoff planning meeting (29th)
January -		Season Kickoff & Build Season begins (7th)
			Meeting schedule shifts to 4 days a week
February -		Build season comes to an end
Robot Reveal
Remaining competition roles selected
Competition preparations


COMPETITION SEASON
March - 		Week 3: Sammamish HS (March 17-20)
April - 		Week 5: Bonney Lake HS (March 24-25)
PNW District Championship (qualifying teams)
FIRST World Championship (qualifying teams)

POST-SEASON
May - 		New board is elected/interviewed
June - 		End of Year Banquet 
July - 		Offseason summer projects (subject to change)
August - 		Offseason summer projects (subject to change)

TEAM COMMUNICATION
STUDENT COMMUNICATION
Our team’s primary form of communication is through Discord and Microsoft teams. All members are encouraged to frequently check for important updates and announcements. 

For build management, we use OneNote to document our meetings and progress. If absent, check the OneNote to see what you missed. 

Students are encouraged to join our team Discord server for more casual team discussions. This is not required, and all announcements made on Discord are also made on Teams.

Email communication will be used for announcements to specific students.

PARENT/GUARDIAN COMMUNICATION
Information to families will be sent via email and periodic newsletters. We ask that each student provides at least one parent/guardian email on all forms/other materials distributed to families in preparation for the season. 

Semi weekly newsletters/debriefs will be sent with build progress, next week’s goals, upcoming events, and member highlights.
Email is our primary route of communication but Discord and Teams are also available. Also parent square is something new.

MEETING ATTENDANCE 
As with any team, you are expected to attend every event on our shared calendar. We know life will not let this occur and ask that you are proactive in communication if you know you will be absent, or can not fulfill a duty.
GENERAL ATTENDANCE POLICY
Commitment to attend 75% of all your scheduled meetings. We understand that students have other commitments and are willing to work around excused absences. That being said, we value quality over quantity individual work, and encourage everyone to attend as many meetings as possible.


ATTENDANCE - Build Season
Attendance and participation will be reviewed monthly. Any student with less than 75% attendance of scheduled meetings or low participation will be communicated with so we can understand the situation. When in attendance all members are expected to be actively engaged in helping our Team.



RULES AND EXPECTATIONS
GENERAL CODE OF CONDUCT
Students will demonstrate Gracious Professionalism, Coopertition, and teamwork at all times.
Students will proactively contribute to team activities and projects.
Students will interact respectfully and professionally with adult mentors, advisors, and parent volunteers.
Horseplay, harassment, and violence of any kind are not tolerated at meetings, competitions, or any club-sponsored activity. 
With questions, comments, or concerns, students will contact a student Board member and/or mentor.
Violations of the code of conduct, bylaws, and/or shop rules will result in: warnings, suspension from shop, demotion from a leadership position, suspension from team
Food is to be eaten and kept in designated areas. 
BASIC SHOP RULES
All new students must successfully complete preseason Safety Training 
Must score 100% on written safety test
Must successfully complete mentor-led shop test
Follow the safety procedures listed in the Safety Training manual at all times.
Wearing safety glasses is required at all times
Ask for help and/or supervision when operating power tools and do not distract others as they do so.
Clean up your workspaces before you leave - leave them in a better condition than when you started!


COMPETITION EXPECTATIONS
To attend competitions, students must complete and turn in all required forms, registration, and club dues by the stated deadline.
Members are required to attend all district competitions to fulfill their membership requirement. Both days of must be attended in full in order to satisfy this requirement. If you cannot attend one of the competitions or one of the days, please let your director know in advance.
Members with a competition role are required to attend both district competitions and possibly a District Championship and/or World Championship (based on advancement).
Team members with one of the following roles will be expected to assist in pit setup the Friday before each competition: Driver, Operator, Drive Coach, Human Player, Technician, Safety Captain, Pit Manager(s)
Team members without a defined competition role will be expected to fulfill the role of a Scouter and remain in the stands to cheer on POP’s drive team as well as other teams on the field. 
Prior to match scouting, scouters will explore the competition pits and learn more about the capabilities of other teams (pit scouting).
Scouters will then work match scouting shifts as specified by the Scouting/Strategy Lead.
Safety Captain and Presenters, as well as other team members in the competition pits, will present the team’s work in various technical and non-technical areas to judges.
Team members will wear their team shirts/hoodies and any additional team spirit gear during competition.
All team members will be expected to assist event volunteers and other teams whenever possible.
Team members, mentors, and families will be expected to demonstrate unparalleled gracious professionalism and coopertition at all times during competition. Any behavior deemed “un-GP” will not be tolerated.
EVENT DESCRIPTIONS
COMPETITIONS
District Events - Every FIRST team will compete in two weekend-long district events in March and April. District events will take place on a Saturday and Sunday with a pit setup on Friday evening. Only members with a competition role will attend the Friday pit setup. Transportation for competitions will be by school  bus (departing from Eastlake) and food will be brought in by our team families. Members will be required to attend all 2 district competitions to fulfill their membership requirements.

District Championships (qualifying teams) - Following the district events is an exciting district championship, pulling about 65 of the best PNW teams together in a location varying each year. The PNW District Championship is a multi-day event and will involve an overnight stay and one or two missed school days. If Pack of Parts qualifies for this event, more details involving transportation and housing will be released during the season.

World Championship (qualifying teams) - In mid-April, the FIRST World Championship will take place in Houston, TX. Qualifying teams from district events across the world will compete in a week-long event with hundreds of international teams. In addition to showcasing their work on the field, teams have a chance to participate in exciting museum tours, attend a high-energy welcome party, and explore the city of Houston. If Pack of Parts qualifies for this event, more details involving transportation and housing will be released during the season.

MEMBER REQUIREMENTS
Being a member of Pack of Parts Robotics means being a member of a competitive team. All members are expected to follow the Team 1294 Code of Conduct and subsequent By Laws at all times. These documents are always available for viewing and can be accessed via the team website.

In order to be a full member of Pack of Parts Robotics, a student must meet all the following requirements. There will be periodic scheduled checkpoints to ensure all students are on track to complete all requirements by the end of the season. 

All paperwork, permission slips and STIMS must be completed and turned in on time. These forms are always available on the team OneNote page.

$200 club fee must be paid on time. This club fee goes towards transportation to and from competitions, competition registration, and season materials. If this fee makes it difficult for a student to become a member of the team, our adult advisor, at fburke@lwsd.org. 

All students must complete Safety Training. Preseason Safety Training will involve a written and hands-on “test”. Students who do not go through this process will not be allowed to work in the shop. 

Commitment to attend 75% of all scheduled meetings. We understand that students have other commitments and are willing to work around excused absences. That being said, we value quality over quantity individual work, and encourage everyone to attend as many meetings as possible.


Attend both competitions. Because of the many competition leadership roles at events, we need many people to fill them! This is the time when we get to see our hard work pay off on the field. Attending competition is also a great way to support the team and see what other teams have been up to all season.

Demonstrate Gracious Professionalism* consistently. Any behavior deemed un-graciously-professional will result in warnings, mentor involvement, limited privileges and shop rights, expulsion from a leadership position, or even expulsion from the team.
*See page 5

FAMILY INVOLVEMENT
FOOD SUPPORT
Meetings - During build season, we rely on parent involvement in supplying lunches for our day-long weekend meetings. Signups for bringing in food will be posted at the start of build season. We encourage all families to contribute food items if possible.

Competitions - In addition to providing build season lunches, we encourage all families to contribute to competition meals, as well. More information on this will be provided near the end of build season.

VOLUNTEERING AND MENTORSHIP
Volunteering with FIRST - Volunteering at FIRST events is encouraged for both students and their parents/guardians. Additionally, parents/guardians interested in mentoring or volunteering directly with our team may be eligible to earn matching donations through their company for Pack of Parts Robotics. We encourage parents/guardians to check if their company matches donations here: https://www.firstinspires.org/ ways-to-help/corporate-matching-gifts

Mentoring with Pack of Parts - If you are a parent/guardian with technical and/or nontechnical expertise interested in becoming a mentor for FRC 1294 Pack of Parts for the 2022-2023 season, please reach out to us at packofparts1294@gmail.com. We are excited to have you on our team! Be a volunteer with LWSD and be one of parent leaders who can chaperone and drive students to events! Reach out to fburke@lwsd.org for more information.

GENERAL SUPPORT OPPORTUNITIES
Transportation (offseason & outreach events) - Interested and available parents/guardians will be asked to provide group and individual transportation for students to and from outreach, volunteer, fundraising, and offseason events. These may be day-long or weekend-long and will be held in various locations. 

Supporting the team - Whether it’s by bringing food to meetings and events, mentoring, offering to carpool, or even attending fundraisers, we are extremely thankful for the support of our parent volunteers. Supporting the team at offseason, outreach, fundraising, and competition events is always encouraged and greatly appreciated, as well. As our students spread the word of FIRST and POP’s journey in their communities, we ask the same of student families.





FINANCES 
If any fees or dues make it difficult for a student to become a member of the team, they are encouraged to reach out to Mr. Burke, our adult advisor, at fburke@lwsd.org 

DUES AND FEES
Club fee - $200
This club fee goes towards transportation to and from competitions, competition registration, and season materials.

If you are a student at Eastlake HS, you can pay at the school bookkeeper or online. If you are a student elsewhere, please write a check to Eastlake Robotics Boosters and deliver it to the team Director of Finance.

TEAM MERCHANDISE 
Team merch fee - $10+
During late January, season-specific team merchandise will be designed and available for purchase for all students and their families. We ask that every student purchases at least one shirt, which will cost about $10. This is to ensure our team maintains a professional, identifiable, and uniform image at competitions and events.

TRAVEL EXPENSES 
In the possibility that our team advances to the PNW District Championship and/or World Championship in Houston, additional travel expenses will be imposed. These fees will cover transportation, overnight housing, and food arrangements for each student. More information on these expenses will be communicated during the competition season.

PARENT/GUARDIAN SUMMARY SHEET
Summary of important information for parents/guardians: please read the following section fully.

COMMUNICATION
Students will communicate with the team via Microsoft TEAMS & Discord. 
Family communication will take place via emails, periodic newsletters, and parent meetings. We ask all members to provide a frequently checked student and parent email.

MEMBER REQUIREMENTS
All paperwork, permission slips and STIMS must be completed and turned in on time. 
$200 club fee must be paid on time.
All students must complete Safety Training.
Commitment to attend 75% of all scheduled meetings. 
Attend both competitions. 
Demonstrate Gracious Professionalism consistently. 
Violations to the team Code of Conduct, Shop Rules, and/or Competition Expectations will result in 1) a warning, 2) mentor involvement, 3) limited privileges and shop rights, 4) expulsion from a leadership position, and 5) expulsion from the team.

FAMILY INVOLVEMENT
FOOD SUPPORT
Signups to provide food and team meals for extended meetings
Contribute food items for competitions
Not required, but highly encouraged

VOLUNTEERING AND MENTORSHIP
Volunteering through FIRST for events (firstinspires.org/volunteer)
Mentoring/Volunteering with Pack of Parts
Matching donations through your company (check with your employer’s HR department for a matching program)
Not required, but highly encouraged

GENERAL SUPPORT OPPORTUNITIES
Transportation to/from offseason, outreach, volunteering, and fundraising events
Supporting the team at events (competitions and other)
Publicizing and sharing team-run events and initiatives 
Highly encouraged of all families

FINANCES
$200 club fee required of each student to be granted membership (covers season registration, materials, and competition transportation)
Additional dues required per student for team merchandise
Additional travel expenses if team qualifies for future competitions 
If any of these dues make it difficult for your student to join Pack of Parts, please reach out to fburke@lwsd.org 


CONTACT 
Please feel free to contact us if you have any questions or concerns.

General
packofparts1294@gmail.com
Advisor & Head Mentor
fburke@lwsd.org
President 
aakarsh.agrawal@team1294.org
Vice President
sagunya.malhotra@team1294.org



2022-2023 STUDENT CONTRACT
STUDENTS: by signing below, I agree to all of the following:
I have read and understood the 2022-2023 Member Handbook in full. 
I commit to attending a minimum of 75% of team meetings.
I understand and agree to all member requirements.
I understand my responsibility to check Teams regularly for team communication.
I understand and have familiarized myself with the values, mission, components, and impacts of FIRST Robotics.
I will behave in a responsible, mature, safe, and graciously professional manner at all times when representing the team (this includes in person and online presence).
If I have any questions, comments, or concerns, I will bring them to the Board to be addressed.


Sanchit Arora
Student Name (Print) 

Sanchit Arora                                                                                                                          01/10/2023

Student Signature									Date

PARENTS/GUARDIANS: by signing below, I agree to all of the following:
I have read and understood the 2022-2023 Member Handbook.
I understand and agree to all financial and family support obligations detailed in the Handbook. If these obligations make it a challenge for my student to participate on Team 1294, I will reach out to a team advisor.
I understand that my student has committed to attend approximately 75% of team meetings and check Teams regularly for team communication.
I understand it is my responsibility to provide a frequently checked email to the team for the purpose of family communication.
I understand that my student is expected to behave in a responsible, mature, safe, and graciously professional manner at all times.
I will demonstrate gracious professionalism when representing the team (this includes in person and online presence, as a participant or spectator).
If I have any questions, comments, or concerns, I will reach out to the Student Board and/or mentors/advisors.

Charu Arora                                                                                                                    tocharuarora@gmail.com
 
Parent Name (Print)								      Parent Email

Charu Arora                                                                                                                                     01/10/2023

Parent/Guardian Signature								Date
